# 376-FinalGame
Development Log

11/18
Met as a team to discuss final project ideas. Ideal objective is 3D; want to see how the flight simulator goes before committing.
Ideas:
- 2D Mario-like game
- 3D Bowling
- 3D FPS (First Person Shooter)
How to meet implementation requirements: powerup mechanic

11/29
Met at Starbucks. Akash was two hours late.
Discussion to finalize project idea:
- Consensus on doing a 3D game for the 25 point criterium
Potential bowling game:
- Basic objects: Bowling ball, alley, pin(s), scoreboard (screen text), gutters
- Extras: powerup item, bumpers
  - Powerup items: speed, mass increase, move the ball closer to the pins, pin size up, bumper activate, score multiplier
- player controlls the bowling ball; it rolls along the alley to hit the pins
- if the ball collides with a powerup object, it gets a respective boost
- if the ball enters/collides with the gutter, lose condition
- if the ball hits a pin, score increase
- simplified rules; initially we will not attempt to implement all rules of real-life bowling
Minseo was also late, and David overslept. 
Made the Devlog into a burn book, Mean Girls Style.

11/29: 11:29 AM
Minseo had object ideas. Hazards! Hitting it slows you down, or curves the ball in a certain way. 

11/29: 11:32 AM
We have three aesthetic goals.
1. Challenge. The game should be challenging to some degree. The user should feel happy when they win, or make a lot of progress in the game. If the game is too hard, or too easy, then it does not meet the challenge aesthetic goal.
2. Submission. The game should be an entertaining pasttime. For example, the user should be excited to see what the powerups do, and try them all out. The user should enjoy the game, but not find it incredibly challenging or boring. We do not meet this aesthetic goal if the user finds it too difficult to play. 
3. Sensation. The game should sound realistic, and fun. We don't meet this aesthetic objective if the sounds are annoying. 

11/29: 11:39 AM
Core Loop:
Position the ball (change its angle/position relative to the pins)
Bowl the ball
(Optional) Hit and activate powerups/powerdowns
(Optional) Hit pins, and change score
Repeat

This should be sufficient to generate a challenge and a fun pasttime for the user. 

11/29: 11:44 AM
Order of operations:
Basic layout for the game already (Akash put that together)
Controlling the ball (Rachel is doing that)
Pin prefab, and adding it to the game (Minseo is doing that)
Scoring mechanisms
Lose conditions
Timer that caps how long the user can play
Powerups
Powerdowns
Rachel implemented "r" reset button.

11/29: 1:00 PM
Minseo created the "pins" prefab.

12/2: 2:27 PM
Akash made amendments to lose and win conditions: 

Win condition: If you exceed a certain score in a certain number of rounds, you win.
Lose condition: If you fail to exceed the score in the number of rounds, you lose. 

12/2: 3:13 PM
David implemented Angle Arrow:

Created cube that follows rotation/movement of Ball pre-launch and disappears upon launch

12/2 4:16 PM
Minseo wrote the Score Multiplier Power Up Script and created the Power Up prefab.

12/2 4:32 PM
David implemented PowerUp_GetBigger and PowerDown_GetSmaller scripts:

Makes ball bigger/small when contacts ball, respectively.

12/2 6:52 PM
David finished prefabs/color schemes for all powerups.
Rachel implemented EventHandler power random instantiation.

12/2 7:23 PM
Akash and David finished all powerup/powerdown scripts.

12/2 7:48 PM
Akash finished EventHandler/powers' position randomization stuff.

12/3 1:52 PM
Rachel created the Title Screen and added background music.

12/3 4:58 PM
Minseo finished implementing event sounds.
Minseo re-organized sounds across different objects.

POSTMORTEM
Summarize what you originally set out to do
- We originally set out to create a simple 3D bowling simulator, with the aesthetic goals of challenge and submission.
- We had dreams of gutters and bumpers that could be enabled/disabled, as well as camera movement
Summarize what your goals ended up being by the end
- By the end, we had roughly the same goals, but with a heavier emphasis on the powerup/down mechanics and a simpler overall implementation
- We abandoned the goal of gutters
- We wanted a variety of powerups and powerdowns to change the gameplay
Summarize what you accomplished of those goals
- We did accomplish powerups/downs
- We did accomplish the basic bowling mechanics
What went right?
- We were able to create a basic scene quickly which allowed us time to focus on the powerups/downs
- We were able to divide responsibilities to allow several people to work on different things at once
What went wrong?
- GitHub slowed us down and created many merge conflicts
What do you wish you knew at the start of the project that you know now?
- We wish we had known about the complexities of using GitHub for project sharing
What did you learn in the process?
- We learned the basics of Unity 3D programming
- We learned about menu screens and 3D physics
